I've been posting a lot recently about
uh things you should do with Claude code
and mostly I've been approaching it from
the kind of philosophy angle. In other
words, kind of everyone's thinking this
is a new paradigm shift, but actually
just the stuff we've been doing for 20
years is really really good with claw
code. You get the most out of it when
you treat it like someone you would
delegate to in your team. In other
words, you focus on the architecture,
you focus on making sure that you've got
good feedback loops. you focus on all
the things we've been doing for the last
20 years, not planning too much up
front, all that stuff. And in all the
comments, people have been saying, "Show
us something practical. Show us you
doing it." And so, this is that video. I
have no idea how long this video is
going to be. I have no idea exactly what
we're going to cover. I'm just going to
go into actually doing some work with
Claude Code in my work repo and I'm
going to talk you through it. I'm going
to show you all of the skills I'm using.
I'm going to show you my process and
we're just going to give you all the
context you can on how these tools are
actually used. And if you dig this then
I'm running a cohort in a couple of
weeks for Claude code for real
engineers. It is 40% off this week and
it teaches you either teaches you the
skills that you need to do real
engineering or it gives you the
conversion course you need to take the
existing skills you have and apply them
to this new age. So if that sounds good
to you then the link is below. Okay,
let's start by understanding the project
that I'm in and what point it is in in
its life cycle, all that stuff. This is
my course video manager. It's at its
about, you know, 1,200th commit. I've
closed around what 637 issues on this
project. And what I'm using this for is
this is my main kind of entry point for
anything I do regarding creating
content. In other words, I create videos
on here. I organize my courses on here.
I post videos on here. I do thumbnail
editing on here. I do writing on here.
It really is my one-stop shop for
everything I need to do my job and it's
amazing. In terms of the code, it's a
React router application which uses uh
TypeScript and Node and uses Drizzle for
the database OM uses Postgress as its
database. Does some a lot of testing
with Vest. And the way I run this is I
don't actually deploy it. I just
basically run it locally. So I just tend
to run start. I build it and I'm just,
you know, uh run it with the start
script. This is a confusing video for me
to make because actually right now I'm
recording the video that I'm making on
the course video manager. Here you go.
This is me. This is the uh clips that
are being detected from the uh video
that I'm recording. And there you go.
That's the previous clip. This is a
confusing video to me to make. You know
what I mean? This is just got loads of
stuff here. This is what the main view
looks like. We've got courses down the
lefth hand side here. Then we've got
lessons and sections within those
courses. And the stuff I want to show
you is inside the free videos over here.
Inside the app, I've got a concept of
ghost lessons and real lessons, which
you can see on the filters here. These
ghost lessons basically don't exist on
disk. And I need to rightclick the
lesson and say create on disk for it to
actually create the lesson on in like a
repo in the disk. And the logic for this
is fairly complicated because I can turn
this back into a ghost here. So, and
then when I do, I need to delete all of
the files that are on the file system.
convert it back to a ghost. The idea
here is that it lets me plan and kind of
create courses in the same UI, which
ends up being really, really nice. But
the thing I want to add are some
enhancements here. So, I want to be able
to when I create a lesson, I shouldn't
just need to create a ghost. I should be
able to add a real lesson instead of a
ghost lesson. Same when I delete a real
lesson, I should be able to just delete
it instead of needing to turn it into a
ghost first. So, this one here. Now,
this part of the codebase is really well
tested and so this should be a
relatively simple build. But there is
another thing I want to do as well,
which is I want to when we go up to
these courses up here and add a new
course, I want to be able to basically
create a ghost course, a course that
doesn't yet exist on the file system
because currently every course needs an
entry in the file system. So that is my
idea. I've got a very loose set of
requirements here and this is maybe how
you enter most days as a developer. you
have some small tweaks that you need to
make to your application that are based
on some vague ideas. Maybe those are
ideas that you've come up with. Maybe
those are ideas that have come from
somewhere else. And the first thing you
need to do is actually road test those
ideas and harden those ideas. But the
first thing we're going to do is open
this up in VS Code. And we're going to
um go into this and say grill me. And
I'm going to use my dictation tool to
dictate some stuff into here. The way
that we handle ghost and real lessons is
a little bit cumbersome in places. It's
annoying that you have to create a ghost
lesson before you then create a real
lesson. And it's also annoying that when
you delete it or delete a real lesson,
you can't just delete the real lesson.
You have to turn it into a ghost lesson
first. Now, at this point, I'm thinking,
do I also in this session want to tackle
the other thing? Do I want to tackle the
idea of ghost courses as well? My
decision space for that is like, will
this crowd out the grill me session or
will it all actually fairly seamlessly
link together? Because the idea of this
grill me session is I'm going to create
a document out of this that I'm then
going to use to um do future builds on
basically. So that's my decision here is
do I want to create a PRD a product
requirements document that has both of
these things in or are these separate
concerns that I need to separate into
separate PRDs. I'm going to say that
this stuff actually sort of belongs
together but I'm just making that
decision kind of arbitrarily really. I
also want to extend the courses
functionality so that it allows me to
create a course without having a file
path. This would be a kind of ghost
course, a planned course that I haven't
actually decided whether I'm going to
build yet. Now, this second section
here, I haven't really explained the
why. That's something that's on my mind
now. I've sort of like I've explained
what I want the feature to do, but I
haven't explained why I want the feature
to exist. It's always really important
when you enter these sessions that you
explain the why to the LLM. Because
sure, if the LLM has the what, then it
understands what you want to build. But
if it doesn't know the why, then it
can't suggest alternatives. The reason I
want this is so that I can plan courses
freely without needing to commit to an
exact shape on the file system.
initiating new repositories is kind of
cumbersome and I sometimes just like to
prefer or I prefer building stuff in
empty space uh instead of having to
commit to an actual shape. Ghost courses
would have slightly different
constraints on them. Ghost courses would
likely
have to no I guess ghost courses could
have real lessons. It's just the moment
that they have a real lesson inside them
then they become a real course and
you're then required to put it in the
file system I guess or I don't know. I'm
not sure about that flow. Maybe we can
work on that together. Notice how rough
this is. This is just a super hashed out
sort of idea that I'm kind of, you know,
just spewing out to the LLM and making
it do all the work. If you've not seen
my Grill Me skill, then uh head to my
I'll I'll send it in a link below. It's
in my top five skills article, but
you'll be able to see what it does here.
It is really really cool. Okay, it's
going to do an explore phase. I'm going
to um head and get a glass of water. And
by the way, if you don't know what
explore is, um explore is it's basically
invoking a sub agent. So it's
essentially just passing a message to
another agent to say explore this
codebase. That agent then um explores it
within its own context window and then
it takes that context, it takes a sort
of summary of that and it hands it back
to the parent agent. So it allows you to
get a lot of juice out of an explore
phase because the explore can just go
bam bam bam bam read tons and tons of
files and then the parent agent only
gets a summary of it. So, it's very
token efficient. But anyway, I need a
glass of water. Okay, grill me has come
back with a let me challenge your
framing of the current pain points. It
says that looking at the code, delete
lesson in the course write service
already handles both ghost and real
lessons directly. If it's real, it
deletes the directory and re numbers. If
it's ghosts, it just removes the DB row.
So, you can delete a real lesson without
converting to ghost first. Is there
something in the UI that forces the
convert to ghost then delete flow? Well,
yeah, there is. Yeah, in the UI there's
no option to delete the lesson
immediately. And what I mean by deleting
a real lesson is it would both delete
the entry from the database and um purge
the on disk representation. I'll ping
this off while I explain something very
cool that I've just recently started
doing. I've been reading a book called
um domain driven design. And in this
book they talk about how important it is
that you maintain a sense of a sort of
glossery of all of the terms that you
use to describe the system. This
ubiquitous language can then be used
basically to um bridge the gap between
uh devs and domain experts the thing the
people you're actually building it for.
So I love this because this is exactly
what the LLM has to have with me. I'm
the domain expert and the LLM is the
dev. And we need some kind of shared
language so that we can talk together
precisely. So for instance, here we have
a concept of a ghost lesson. A lesson
that exists on Whoopsie. A lesson that
exists on the database. Where is it?
Yeah. A lesson that exists on the
database but not yet on the file system.
And so whenever the LLM is searching for
stuff about ghost lessons, it's going to
come up come across this ubiquitous
language file. Okay. Okay, so it's come
back and it said, "Yeah, the UI
currently only exposes convert to ghost
for real lessons, not a direct delete
entirely option." That's a
straightforward UI gap. Okay, that's
useful. Let's quickly talk about like
the way it's using service here and um
what this actually means in my codebase.
I might actually try the new um by the
way side question thing here. This is
really useful when you just want to ask
a quick question and you don't want it
to kind of enter into the chat history.
Describe what's going on with the course
write service. Uh describe the shape of
it. to describe its capabilities. Let's
see what it comes back with here. The
reason I'm uh asking about this and want
to show you what it is is that um I'm
really proud of the way that I've
designed this repo. I mean, there's
definitely stuff in there that
definitely needs to be um looked at, but
the way I've done the services I think
is quite nice. The course right service
is the main business logic layer for
mutating course data, the right side of
the system. It coordinates between the
database, the file system, and the path
numbering and renumbering logic. It's
got a really clear interface here like
you can add ghost lessons, you can
materialize a ghost. So, convert a ghost
lesson to a real lesson, uh, convert it
to ghost again, uh, delete lesson, etc.
So, this is a big big blob of
functionality. And the tests for this
course write service are all in one
place. So, course write service.test.ts.
Oh, no. Okay. Used to be there. Not
anymore. Yeah, here they are. Course
e2e.test.ts. ts and this actually
creates a test database. It sets up a
temporary git repo and so it tests all
of the synchronization between this.
This repo is using effect and effect
makes it so so nice to create these kind
of like units within your system that
you can test really easily. Other
languages have this as a first class
thing but effect um sort of bolts that
on on top of TypeScript in a really
beautiful way. I've made a video about
effects before on this channel, just one
video. And uh suffice to say, I still
love it and I use it for literally
everything or at least every backend
thing that I build is all in effect.
Anyway, this huge service, the course
write service, uh where is it? DB
function service. Here it is. The course
write service. It just lives in here.
So, it's a file with essentially a bunch
of methods inside here. And these
methods like materialize ghost, like add
ghost section, add ghost lesson, delete
lesson, etc. This is what we're talking
about when we talk about this service.
So then I can exit out of this by the
way thing by just pressing space enter
or escape. And now I'm back here. So
this is a great question. What flow do
you actually want here? Are you saying
you want to create a lesson action that
immediately creates the directory on
disk skipping the ghost step entirely?
Or is the pain more that the two-step
process create ghost and then
materialize feels like unnecessary
ceremony when you already know you want
a real lesson? Yes, exactly. The
two-step process feels unnecessary and
it says okay. So, you want a single
create lesson action that creates both
the DB entity and the on disk directory
in one shot when you already know that
it's going to be real. Yep. Okay. And
now it's gone to the bigger topic. Ghost
courses. Yeah. Here we go. Then you said
something interesting and immediately
hedged on it. Ghost courses could have
real lessons and when they do, they
become a real course and you're required
to put it in the file system. Let me
break this apart. First question. A
ghost course has no file path. So, it
has no git repo. Sections and lessons
inside it will all be ghost by
necessity. There's nowhere to put them
on disk. when you say a ghost course
could have real lessons, what does real
mean without a file system? Right? So,
here what it's doing is it's fleshing
out my kind of woolly language a little
bit and forcing me to be a bit more
specific. This is an easy question uh
for me to answer. I don't want them to
have some kind of intermediate status
like flesh more fleshed out than a
ghost. What a great phrase. But yeah, A
is pretty obviously the thing here.
Adding a real lesson to a ghost course
is the trigger that forces you to assign
a file path and materialize the course.
Now, I'm already thinking from a UI
point of view, what's going to be the
easier thing to do? Or rather, the most
obvious thing for the user, the cleanest
UI either when we create a like real
lesson inside a ghost course, we
basically say, "No, you can't do that.
You need to choose a thing in disk first
and then you need to click away." Or we
create a kind of integrated flow where
you say, "Okay, you're um writing this
to disk. When you do that for the first
time inside a ghost course, you need to
choose a place that it's going to live.
I think I'm like veering towards the
second because it's not that complicated
to do that in terms of UI and uh I think
it'll be a nicer flow. So, let's say
that to it. Yeah, we're going to choose
a here. Um and I think it makes sense
that when you press um convert to or
convert reveal in file system or or
whatever the button is whenever you make
it and material notice here this is
where the ubiquitous language comes in
really handy because I was just sort of
fluffing around there. But what I mean
is that when I materialize a ghost
lesson when you materialize a ghost
lesson you should have a modal popup
that forces you to materialize the
course as well. Look how clean, like how
much cleaner that language is because
I've got a concept of materializing and
the word agreed on between me and the
LLM. Anyway, let's fire this off and see
what happens. Right. Yeah, we've got a
concept of um versions inside the
application. So, course versions. This
is really important for me because I
have a team of people who actually apply
the course to the CMS. And so, I have a
course and a change log. For instance,
here in my Claude Code cohort, I've got
several versions here. And like the
sooner I approach the cohort, the more
I'm sort of fixing bugs or like um
switching out videos, that kind of
thing. The latest version is always the
draft version. And then I can like
publish that draft version and add a
commit message to it and it goes into
the change log. Here you go. This is the
UI for publishing the new version. And
here's a preview of the change log. So
yeah, I'm pretty sure that the schema
that we rely on needs the ghost course
to still have versions. Yeah, I'm fairly
sure that the schema that we need um
will require us to have versions because
versions are needed in order to have
sections and lessons and stuff inside
them. However, it makes zero sense to be
able to publish a ghost version. So, we
should just hide the bits of UI that um
and the actions in the menu that allow
you to publish. So, let's fire this off.
I can see in my video editor that we're
about like 15 minutes in. And just
notice like how long we're spending here
on fleshing out these ideas. The more we
do here, the less we're going to end up
needing to do um when we actually guide
the LLM. Okay, let me push on the file
assignment moment. When you materialize
a ghost course cuz you're materializing
a lesson inside of it, you need to give
it a file path. Either the repo already
exists or the repo doesn't exist yet.
When you assign a file path to a ghost
course, should the app handle repo
creation for you? No, it shouldn't
handle repo creation. It's just pointing
at an existing directory. That's an easy
one to figure out there. Okay, this is
such a lovely smart question that it's
given us here. It's laying out what
you're asking for. Direct delete for
real lessons, direct create for real
lessons, ghost courses, and then
materializing a lesson in ghost courses.
Question, does direct create apply
inside ghost courses, too? That's so
freaking smart. That's such a nice
question. I can imagine my old boss
Willow Reagan uh asking that question
who is the guy I learned a lot of this
lead developer stuff from. He had this
incredible ability to just basically sit
in a meeting and ask smart questions for
hours and hours and hours. And this is
exactly what the AI is doing here. It's
asking really smart questions at the
right point in the process. So if you're
inside a ghost course and you hit create
lesson, should that immediately trigger
the assign file path model and create it
on disk. Now again, there's a trade-off
here. And instead of me thinking about
this in my own head, which is not
particularly fun viewing, why don't we
model what it might look like if I sort
of work this through with the LLM? Can
you give me the trade-offs of both of
these approaches? Okay, so it's saying
on option A, create lesson inside a
ghost course always creates a go ghost
lesson. Keeps the ghost course as a pure
planning space. The assigned far path
moment only happens when you explicitly
choose to materialize, which a clear
deliberate action. There's downside. If
you've already decided this course is
real and you're just adding lessons,
you're back to the twostep annoyance
you're trying to fix. Option B, create
lesson insider ghost course triggers the
materialization cascade. Yeah, it's
saying option A is the obvious choice
given your stated goal. The two-step
annoyance you described is specifically
about real courses where the file system
exists and you want a real lesson. Yeah,
I probably agree with it. If we want a
consistent UI, then we do want the
ability to both create real lessons and
create ghost lessons uh at whatever
stage the course is at, whether it's
real or ghost. That will mean a bit less
work in the front end because we don't
want to or won't need to conditionally
show things blah blah blah blah blah.
Yes, this makes sense to me. Option A
sounds good. I think it mostly makes
sense in the context of having two
buttons, one to create a real lesson and
one to create a ghost lesson. Could you
just talk me through the UI a little bit
and how this is going to look? Notice
that I'm driving this a little bit more
now. That's okay, too. The grill me
skill is nice and flexible so that you
can drive sometimes and the AI can
drive. This is nice too is actually
checking the current UI for lesson
creation first. This is part of the
skill is I get it to instead of asking
me questions about everything if it's a
question that can only be answered by or
can be answered by looking at the code,
it should look at the code first. I do
wish that explore was faster. Explore is
the thing that's like you need it in
every single session, sometimes multiple
times a session. And I just wish it was
quicker. Okay, so here's how the current
UI works. You right click a section
header, you add a lesson. Right click an
existing lesson, add lesson before, add
lesson after. Also creates a ghost.
Inside a real course, you rightclick a
section, you'd see add ghost lesson and
add lesson. Inside a ghost course, right
click section, you'd only see add ghost
lesson. Yeah, right. That's the
question. Inside a ghost course, do you
want the create real lesson button to
exist at all? Now, at this point, I
don't know. Like, I'm imagining this UI
is going to get pretty crowded with this
like cuz you're going to have multiple
buttons there. You're going to have like
add a lesson before this one and then do
you make it ghost or real? I guess like
oh man, this is actually quite gnarly.
I'm thinking do I actually want a
prototype of this so I can sort of see
how it looks? Because there's multiple
ways that we could fiddle with this and
and get it like um nice. You could have
it where you add a lesson then it opens
a modal and you choose whether um it's a
ghost lesson or a real lesson. I think
probably what I'm going to do is I'm
just going to build it one way and then
maybe offer feedback afterwards. So
let's say yes inside a ghost course
let's have the create real lesson
button. You know I could like stop this
whole grilling session. I could go into
prototyping mode here where I just sort
of prototype you know three different
versions five different versions of this
just to see what the UI would look like.
But I'm quite keen to get into
implementation now. Okay. So create real
lesson inside a ghost course triggers
the full cascade. Modal asks for file
path course becomes real. section
materializes. Lesson gets created on on
disk all in one flow. That's right. That
model is doing a lot of work. Correct.
It needs to grab the lesson title and
the course file path. Yeah, that's it.
Correct. That's it. We just need the
lesson title and the course file path.
That's it. I can feel it. We're getting
to the end of this grilling session. Oh,
maybe not. It's asking about section
behavior. Sections inside ghost courses.
And the state of a section is basically
just derived from um the lesson. If
there are any ghost lessons inside a
section, then it's going to be a ghost.
Oh, sorry. If there are any real lessons
inside a section, then it's a real
section on disk. A section basically
looks like this. It's just essentially a
directory on disk. You can rename it and
rename the directory or you can add
things to it, but that's basically it.
Section logic should obey the current
rules that we already have. There's
nothing really new about sections. For
instance, when we're inside a ghost
course and we create a real lesson
inside that section, then we basically
flow all the way up. So, it becomes a
real section, becomes a real lesson, and
becomes a real course. Here we go. Let's
keep going. Let me switch to the
database schema. Right now, courses
table has a file path as a required text
field. For ghost courses, this would
need to be nullable. That is the only
schema change I'm envisioning. Yeah,
just going to say yes to this. It's
going to grill me on a tricky edge case.
I see you have a real course with a file
path. It has some real lessons and some
ghost lessons. You delete all the real
lessons or convert them all to ghost.
Does the real course become a ghost
course? Again, this is like a classic
Willow Reagan question. It's fantastic.
Really, really good. No, the real course
does not become a ghost course. Once a
course has a file path, it stays real
forever because the thing that's on disc
is not going anywhere. Yeah, I was
thinking about that before and so I'm
super glad that it answered it because
now it's in the context and it's spelled
out. Another edge case. You have a ghost
course. You materialize a lesson, assign
a file path, everything becomes real.
Now the course has a file path but no
real lessons. I feel like we just
answered that, right? That's a weird
one. I mean, I don't think Willow Reagan
would ask that question. Yeah. Let me
move to the deletion side. You want a
direct delete action for real lessons in
the UI? Currently, the context menu for
real lessons shows convert to ghost, but
no delete. Yeah, this is a UI thing.
Should real lessons have both options,
convert to ghost and delete? I think we
need both. Okay, we're getting there.
We're getting there. I think I've
covered the main branches. Let me lay
out the full scope as I understand it
and you tell me if I'm missing anything.
Courses file path becomes nullable.
Ghost course creation a new course
creation flow that only asks for a name.
No file path. Correct. Ghost course UI
hide the publish and export actions.
Correct. Create a real lesson button
available in both real and ghost
courses. In a real course creates on
disk immediately. In a ghost course
triggers modal asking for the file path
first then cascades materialization.
That looks good. Create ghost lesson
works as today. Available everywhere.
Delete action for real lessons. purges
from the disk and the database in one
step. Yes. Delete action for ghost
lessons already unchanged. And finally,
con convert to ghost stays for real
lessons that you want to keep planning
but remove from the disc. Exactly. So,
we've got that. This was essentially the
eight bullet points that we just spent
22 minutes of video just uh trying to
get. This to me feels really really
familiar. This is how I'm working with
AI a lot. I, you know, block out half an
hour in my calendar to work out exactly
the feature I want. And from here, it's
pretty much all on Rails. Like, we have
done the hard bit. Now, we have done the
human in the loop bit. What I do next is
I now uh I've been trying this for a few
days. I get it to update my ubiquitous
language document to basically just uh
keep it up to date with any of the ideas
that I've got in here. For instance,
we've got some new terminology now.
We've got this idea of uh ghost courses,
which is new. Let's see what edit it
decided to make. In fact, I'm just going
to accept it and review it afterwards.
So, there we go. We can see it's updated
its idea of ghost entities here. It's
got ghost lessons, ghost sections, and
ghost courses. The verb materialize is
now properly in here. The act of
transitioning a ghost entity to a real
entity by creating its on disk
representation. I like too that it has
this create on disk and realize like the
aliases to avoid. That's really cool.
And it's even got a concept for the
materialization cascade. the chain
reaction when materializing a lesson
inside a ghost course. Assigns file path
to course materializes section that
materializes lesson. I freaking love
this because later on I can say, yeah,
there's a bug inside the materialization
cascade and it knows exactly what I'm
talking about. So, let's commit this
update to the ubiquitous language
document. Look at this. Yeah, sometimes
I am actually committing code myself.
Okay, so it's gone back to the grilling.
Yeah, it's now just sort of repeated the
eight sections. The existing plan entity
is a separate disconnected planning
tool. Yeah, I did used to have a um
separate planning area, but then I sort
of used this ghost concept to integrate
it into my actual uh courses thing. Uh
I've got it inside the ubiquitous
language inside here uh down here. A
plan, a plan section, and a plan lesson
there. But this is basically deprecated.
I am going to remove this at some point.
And so we can say plans are deprecated
and ghost courses are the new way to do
it. And in fact, I think I'm going to go
ahead and say I'm satisfied. Let's and
I'll invoke my next skill which is let's
write a PRD. So if we think about the
conversation that we've just had with
the LLM, it's incredibly good foder for
just turning this into a sort of more uh
concise summary document of everything
that we want to build. I freaking love
question and answer because it
colllocates the question with the
answer. I know that sounds like such a
sort of basic thing to say, but the way
that these attention mechanisms work is
that stuff that's close together tends
to um like it sort of shows up as a hot
spot for the LLM in terms of its
attention mechanism just like it does
for humans. And what this ends up
meaning is that this is such a rich
document for it to pour through. Now,
it's doing another explore phase. We
should probably do like a cursory check
on our context window down here. We're
currently only at like 40k tokens, which
is pretty impressive given how long
we've spent with the LM working on this
stuff. A lot of folks have asked me why
my grill me skill doesn't use the ask
user question tool. Like we weren't
actually sort of like using uh Claude's
built-in mechanism for asking questions.
And the reason for that is that I don't
really like that UI first of all. And
second, like if you have a choice
between calling a tool and not calling a
tool, then like not calling a tool is
always going to be more token efficient
because every time you call a tool, you
need to wrap it in JSON. You need to do
various things. Okie dokie. We can see
here that okay, it's now sketching out
the major modules before writing the
PRD. I've talked before on this channel
on how important I think um modules are
and like understanding the modules in
your codebase without necessarily
needing to look inside them. Like the
course write service that we looked at
before that's a big testable module that
I was very careful in designing and
designing the interface for. And I think
this is so important that I've baked it
into my writer PRD skill. So it sketches
out the modules and surfaces them to
you. I don't necessarily need to look
inside these modules. I just want to
know how they're changing. For instance,
here I can see something that's a bit
dodgy, right? It wants it to make a new
method on the course write service
materialize course and lesson reuses the
existing materialized ghost and section
materializing logic internally. I'm
thinking about whether it could just
instead use the existing materialized
ghost and pass it like an additional
parameter, but I think that would be a
little bit dodgy AP API wise. So, I
think it is probably right. I think it
should have a new method. Notice how I'm
thinking about the interface more than
I'm actually thinking about the
implementation here. The implementation
I don't really care about, but I want to
make sure that this is testable and um
you know that the rest of the um kind of
repo and any future AI agents can
understand what it's doing. And again,
notice how easy these functions are to
name because we've got this concept of
the ubiquitous language. So module one
is the ghost core schema DB operations
that seems fine. The materialization
cascade service that seems fine. It's
just a new method on the course service.
Here we've got two new API routes, which
makes sense because we're doing direct
real lesson creation, direct real lesson
deletion. I could um put them into like
other API routes, but because this is
just an internal tool, I don't really
care about what my API like looks like
from the outside, then I don't really
care about um how many API routes I have
or what they look like. It's just an
implementation detail. Now, it's talking
about the ghost course UI. New add ghost
course option in the sidebar. Yep, that
seems fine. A materialization model, two
lesson creation buttons in context
menus, and a delete action. And then
module six, the plans deprecation. Hey,
I mean, I do want to deprecate the plans
at some point, but I don't think I want
to deprecate plans now. Certainly not as
part of this PRD. And it's asking me a
second question. Which modules do you
want tests for? I want tests in the
places that we already have test
harnesses. So for the course, write
service definitely. And if we have some
stuff for direct deletion, I think that
would be as part of the course right
service too, right? So let's see what it
says here. Now this is funny. It's
saying there's no existing test harness
for coarse right service. The tests in
the repo are mostly for pure functions
and reducers. That is rubbish. So I'm
going to do a rafiki. I'm going to say
look harder. And there we go. There they
are. A whole suite of them split by
concern. Okay. And it's satisfied. It
has everything it's needed. It's now
going to write the PD and submit it as a
GitHub issue. This is what I do with my
PRDs. This is what I do with all of my
issues. I stick them in GitHub because
then when we go to actually implement
this with an AFK agent, the AFK agent is
going to pull down all of the GitHub
issues, choose the one it's going to
work on, and then just work on that one.
Now, a question becomes, am I going to
review this PRD? And no, I'm not going
to. LM are really, really good at
summarizing things. And so, I know that
this PRD will probably be a pretty good
summarization of this conversation. So,
I'm just going to accept it on faith.
And I'm then going to say PRD to issues.
So it's now time to break this PRD down
into individual issues. The benefit of
doing this is that this now the PRD is
already in its context from having
written it. And so we get to just break
the issues down straight from there.
These all have blocking relationships
in. So it's blocked by nothing. This
one's blocked by number one. This one's
also blocked by nothing. That's cool.
Now let's just see how many there are
here. Six does feel about right, I
think. And what I mean by that is this
is going to get picked up by a Ralph
loop. And so it's going to just sort of
work through each of these tasks
sequentially. And so I want to pick
tasks that are not too big and not too
small because if they're too small then
we pay the cost of like having to kick
up an entire agent just to do like
number two here, hide the publish export
UI on ghost courses. This uh is a tiny
task and it can be melded in with
something else. But maybe ghost course
creation maybe. No, that seems like
decently sized because it touches the
UI, it touches the schema, touches the
API. Two lessons creation buttons,
create ghost lesson and create real
lesson. This seems super small. And
actually, I think it has broken them
down a little bit too far. Except maybe
the materialization cascade that needs
to live in its own. So, I think maybe we
just merge two and three together and I
think we'll be happy. So, let's go down
to the bottom. Let's say merge two and
three together. Okay, now we got four
slices. is the ghost course creation uh
the UI stuff, the direct delete action
and the materialization cascade. Good
stuff. Let's go. Let's create the
issues. Am I going to review these
issues? Absolutely not. I understand. Uh
like I've already sort of pre-reviewed
them. It's just expanding out stuff
that's in the PRD and then, you know,
putting them in issues. This will be
fine. I might just show you one of them
just to sort of see what they look like.
It links to the parent PRD. It says
exactly what to build. It gives some
acceptance criteria. Says what it's
blocked by. And it also says the user
stories that are addressed in the parent
PRD. If the parent PRD is the kind of
destination, then these things are the
journey to get there. And notice the PRD
just has a bunch of user stories, some
implementation decisions, and uh testing
decisions as well. All of this stuff
essentially just comes from the skills
that I've put together. And I found that
they're good enough to keep the LLM on
Rails. I really like adding in the
testing decisions because it means that
it's more likely to follow TDD and do
some um kind of create some feedback
loops as it's going, which is great. So,
all right, we have now set everything up
to u make our AFK agent to give it the
best chance possible to produce good
work. Now, I've been like cooking my
setup for this a little bit over the
last 24 hours, and I've sort of built
like a mini library to um make it work
better than I had it before. The
provisional name for this is sand castle
and we have like a docker file here.
It's going to spin up a docker
container. It's going to mount the u
working directory inside this docker
file and then it's going to any commits
that are made then inside the docker
file by claud which is going to run in
there. It's then going to patch those
out. So pull out those commits as
patches and apply them to my local um
repo. I found that this setup is just
like super flexible. I have a Docker
file and a prompt here and I can just
run a Ralph loop again and again and
again passing in a bunch of issues and
passing in like the last x number of
commits. But you can check out the repo
to sort of see the um most up-to-date
file on this. I'm going to run where is
it? I think it's PNPM Ralph. So I'll run
PNPM Ralph. This is going to now spin up
my AFK agent with a max number of
iterations of 100. What it should do is
it will run out of uh GitHub issues
because it's going to close the GitHub
issues as it creates commits for them.
But at this point, I can essentially
just walk away because you know we can
see it's like doing things in the
terminal. It's saying looking at the
issues directly to action for blah blah
blah blah. But I can now have a cup of
tea or I can go make a coffee or
something or have my lunch or more
likely I can just open up another
terminal and enter another grilling
session. So for folks who say this
approach seems really really slow, what
you need to understand is that it's slow
because you're trying to extract ideas
out of your human brain. And while this
is happening, you've got AFK agents
running in the background implementing
your previous grilling sessions. This is
why this is revolutionary because like
once we've completed thinking through
the idea, our work is kind of done until
we actually QA the outputs. My friend
Jamon on Twitter called this the day
shift and the night shift where I'm
doing the day shift. I'm like, you know,
thinking of ideas. I'm grilling with the
LM. I'm turning this into PRDs and
turning those PRDs into issues. And then
the LM takes the night shift. Claude
goes and actually implements this stuff
AFK. So, I'm going to take a little
break. I might even go for a little walk
and I'm going to just wait and check
back in with this once it's done. Okay,
we are back. It is like an hour and a
half later. I, you know, went for a
walk. I went and had a cup of tea with
my parents. Uh, yeah, let's see what
it's done. So we can see that the agent
signaled completion after five
iterations. So we essentially ran a
cleared clawed code agent five times in
the repo and it should have produced for
us. Yeah, I think six commits here. I
think those commits, one of them might
be one that I just haven't pushed up
yet. Yeah, we can see the entire like
commit history here. It's been leaving
really nice detailed commit messages for
us. And it should be Yeah, I think this
was the update that I pushed before or
haven't pushed so far. So at this point
in the process, I need to um kind of
look back over these commits. I'm kind
of tempting to look over the code, but I
think I just want to review the
implementation first. So I'm going to
open up a new clawed session. And I
haven't come up with a skill for this
yet. So I'm just going to sort of free
blast it. So I'm going to say, take the
last five commits and create a QA plan
for me. Save that QA plan in a GitHub
issue. The QA plan should give me a
step-by-step guide on how to test every
single part of the new implementation.
This is something I've been sort of
playing around with adding into my
skills because I think it does make
sense almost in every single sort of uh
userfacing change. And while it's doing
this, I'm going to rebuild the
application and rerun it locally so that
we can see exactly what's happening with
it. Okay, so it has created for us a QA
plan. Beautiful. Now, I have to say
there is nothing more boring than
watching else or watching someone else
do QA. So, what I'm going to do is just
walk through this uh myself and I will
come back to you if I have any issues.
Okay, the first one actually came super
early on, which is pressing this add
course model. I can see now there's two
tabs in here. I actually really hate
this. Like I just want uh every time you
add a new course, it should be a ghost
course. And I don't really like the
ghost course terminology appearing in
the UI. So, what I'm going to do is exit
out of this. And I've got a little
feedback button here, which you can see
if I just remove myself there. this
feedback button I can just describe my
feedback in detail and then it will
create a GitHub issue for me which can
then be picked up by the Ralph loop. So
I'm going to say when I open the add
course modal I want the only option to
be to add a ghost course and I don't
want the ghost course to appear in the
UI. It should just look like we're
creating a course and then it creates a
ghost course. So I'll submit this and
when I go to the GitHub issues, we can
see that we've now got a new issue
saying hide ghost course option in add
course modal create ghost course
silently. So I actually used haiku to
generate me a title here and then we've
got the route it was submitted from and
then what I said in the feedback button.
This is how I do QA. This information is
enough for Ralph to do a really nice job
here. So I'm actually going to start my
Ralph loop as I'm going here. I'm going
to go back to the QA plan and I'm just
going to add a comment to this and I'm
going to say Ralph loops should not work
on this one. This is a human in the loop
task only. Or in fact, I'm just going to
rename that first one to AFK. In fact,
I've got something in my prompt that
says if there's a human in the loop like
label on it or it looks like it's for
humans, don't work on it. And so, let's
go back in here. Let's run PNPM Ralph
again. And it's going to actually work
on that issue while we're QAing other
stuff. So, I'll go back to doing a bit
of QA and I'll see you in a second.
Okay, a new thing is when I create a
ghost course here and I say new fun
course for instance, then when I press
create ghost course, nothing appears to
happen. But actually, as you can see in
the top left, oh, first of all, we get
this weird minified React error. So,
I'll just copy and paste that for the
feedback form later, it does actually
create the course, but we don't go to
the course and the modal doesn't close.
So, let's add this back into feedback.
When I create a ghost course, it doesn't
direct me to the new page and it shows
this error. There's also no loading
state present on the button which looks
confusing uh from the user's
perspective. So let's submit that again.
The agent that we kicked off to fix the
previous bug has actually already
finished. So let's just kick it off
again and I'll keep QAing. This time I
won't interrupt. I'll just kind of keep
going through the issues and uh
attempting to fix them with Ralph in the
background. Okay, this one I did think
was showing off here or worth showing
off rather. When I see a new ghost
section inside a ghost course and I
right click here, this create ghost
lesson and create real lesson doesn't
seem right to me. I feel like when I go
into like create ghost lesson here or
create like I just want an add lesson
kind of thing. We've already got a modal
here. What we should do is just have a
checkbox that says also create this on
the file system. So this is something
that came up in our early discussions
about this feature that kind of like I
couldn't get a sense for which way to go
until I saw it in reality. So that's the
way that some things go sometimes. We
could have had an extra design phase or
we could have had an extra prototype
phase, but you know, I don't mind just
jumping to code and fixing it there. So
I will add some feedback for that, but
I'll spare you hearing my dictation. All
right, then. I've walked through the QA
plan and I have created uh seven issues
here over the last uh or six issues over
the last 8 minutes. We can see that
while I've been QAing, Ralph has been
going in the background and is fixing
the issues. Most of these issues are
bugs, but some of them are features that
we just didn't think about. So, for
instance, when we're deleting real
lessons, we want to add a confirmation
model to make sure that it doesn't just,
you know, like um we don't accidentally
click it and it deletes or whatever.
There were certainly some showstopper
bugs here. For instance, if there's if
it's not a git repo, uh then it gets
into a super weird state. Yeah. If the
course repo is not a git repository and
anything about that fails, then we
should walk back the creation of the
directory inside it since the directory
and file system and the database will
then be out of sync. This is something
again we didn't think about in the grill
me session at the start. So, we're now
having to find out about it in QA. It's
this kind of stuff, this kind of stuff
that makes me think that like the specs
to code approach is just never going to
work because when you're in there, when
you're in the QA loop, when you're
iterating towards something, you are
going to find little weird edge cases
like this that is really hard to plan
for before. Anyway, rant over. The point
here is that I've now done a extra QA
step. Uh Ralph is now going to chew
through these issues. I can probably
actually close this QA plan and I might
want to reopen it if I like um sort of
want to redo it, let's say, but the
behavior has slightly changed. So, I'm
closing it to take it out of Ralph's or
or rather the agent that I'm using's
context. So, it doesn't look at this as
like the the source of truth for what
it's supposed to be building. Either
way, I'm going to go do something else
and then we'll see what happens to Ralph
when it comes back. Okay, we're back and
we've got iteration 8 which is very
nearly complete. This looks like the
final issue here where it's just adding
the confirmation model with file details
when deleting real lessons. We can see
we're up to 14 commits that have been
added kind of in this entire feature
build as we've been going along. And the
issues here are very nearly closed. You
can see I last opened this one 30
minutes ago. So that's how long it's
been running kind of. One thing I would
like to add here is potentially
parallelizing these Ralph loops and sort
of having like a team of agents working
on it at once. But to be honest, it's
quite nice having these gaps because it
means that I get to do some deep focus
on something. For instance, like
grilling me on something and then later
I can come back and sort of come back to
code and do a big QA session, send it
off again, you know, you get the idea.
Something that's crucial to the success
of these Ralph loops is making sure it
runs tests and types on every single
commit. We can see that in most of these
loops, it's adding tests, too. So, it's
updating the reducer test to cover the
new action. Now, it's committing and
closing the issue. So, we should be
nearly there. Okay. And we are good to
go. I'm going to um rerun the build and
let's do a little bit more QA. And I'll
spare you the uh extra QA step here. But
suffice to say, what I would do from
this point on is I would go back here
and I would continue QAing it, find more
bugs, and at some point I would call
this done and I would stop working on
it. One thing that's great about having
this really flexible backlog approach is
that anytime I can just queue up a bunch
of bug fixes and it will go in and fix
them. Let's just check one thing which
is we can see that the add lesson now it
no longer says ghost lesson and real
lesson and we can see here it's saying
create on file system in a little
checkbox. If I go fooar and I say create
on file system then it's going to add
the lesson and we should be able to see
once that's done. It's quite slow that
isn't it? I'm interested on why that's
quite slow especially because this is
all local. It should now be complete and
it creates that foo bar as the second
lesson. But there we go. We are by my
count which is not entirely accurate.
It'll be about 42 minutes into the video
at this point. If you're here, thank you
so much for watching all the way to the
end. What I hope you take out of this
video. I'm not sure to be honest. Like,
this is so much looser than the videos I
usually put together, which are usually
fairly tight, focused on a specific
goal. I hope that you're able to pick up
some vibes from me in terms of how much
detail and how in-depth I look at the
stuff that I'm uh producing. You also
notice how little I looked at the code
really. Like what I'm doing here is I'm
reviewing inputs and outputs. I'm
interested in the code. Absolutely. I'm
interested in how the interfaces are
changing. I'm interested in how the
modules what the modules are sort of
looking like. And every so often I'll go
and have a little poke around in the
code just to make sure it's on the right
track. But for me really what I'm doing
is reviewing the outputs that come from
AI, passing more information to it and
getting into a tight loop with it. And
crucially because I'm able to run the uh
run claude AFK, I'm able to parallelize
my own QA with the fixing of the bugs,
you know, which is just amazing. I
imagine though you have just dozens and
dozens of questions. Um feel free to
ping them into the comments below. Or if
you want to learn this from the ground
up instead of just diving through this
messy video, then the cohort is the
place. This one starts on March 30th,
but if you're seeing this sometime in
the future, then there'll probably be a
a place you can sign up for the next
one, too. This has been the last kind of
two months of my life really full-time
working on this. And I'm so proud of how
it's come together because everything
that you see here in this sort of big
video has come from me thinking about
this stuff deeply. And the cohort is the
kind of perfect encapsulation, the
easiest way to learn this from the
ground up. Anyway, thank you so so much
for watching. Thank you for getting to
this point. and I will see you in the
next